Now,
Here's something that.
Is it the heart of living the Christian life?
In this you rejoice,
Though now for a little while in that little while there means a lifetime.
That doesn't mean
oh you're gonna you're only gonna have to experience hardship for a year and then on the other side of the year no more hardship.
this this little while is in in comparison to eternity paul said exactly the same thing in second corinthians four.
Whereas this light momentary affliction is working for us an eternal weight of glory and he meant light
And momentary meaning
Prison and lifetime.
If necessary,,
For a little while,, if necessary,,
You have been grieved.
By various trials. so,
Various trials,
Means they're not of one kind,
There are as many kinds as there are people in this room.
Plus, plus, plus.
Trials from.
A wife or a husband who doesn't respond the way you wish they would.
Children who don't write back.
Don't want to write back.
Loss of a job,
Scandal comes into your life.
Just met recently with a brother who experienced that.
And right on down to
A bullet in the head or a knife on your throat.
The range of trials are,
As many as there are people and troubles in the world.
And you are being grieved by those.
And here's
See if you agree with this.
Would you agree
That verse 6,
Is teaching
That joy and.
Joy in hope,
Verses 3-5, hope.
And grief in various trials are simultaneous.
In this you rejoice,
Though now,
For a little while,
If necessary,
You
are being grieved.
Have been grieved.
Now...
Been grieved.
Now, in this, you rejoice.
That's what I think it means.
I think they're simultaneous.
If you are a caring and loving person,
Who is moved by earthquake fatalities.
Or anything closer to you.
Or the lostness of the people around you, or the brokenness of the families in your church, or anything else sorrowful, you will always have something in your awareness that's worthless.
that's worth crying about.
Won't you?
And the Bible says, weep with those who weep, which means weep all the time.
And the Bible says, rejoice.
Always.
And again, I say rejoice. And right here we have it.
We have a hope.
That never changes,
and a God on our side by new birth, presence of the Spirit, keeping us for it, always a reason to joy, always a reason to rejoice.
I like to say to myself and to others if they will receive it,
You know it's a good day when you wake up and you're not in hell.
It is.
And you add to that
You wake up.
Into the
Unshakable hope that you're going to inherit everything, and you wake up into the unshakable confidence. he will guard me no matter what.
Or what happens to me, he won't let me go. He'll keep my faith forever.
it may get small it may be a mustard seed someday but he won't let me go he will keep me he began the work he'll finish the work he is at work in me
And then you weep.
And those are not contradictory.
Are they?
I don't think they are. I hope they're not. Paul said, this is, at Desiring God, this is kind of a mantra for us, because we,
We tried not to bury our head in the sand.
When a thousand people are killed.
in an earthquake in Nepal. We try not to bury our head, but to come to terms with it.
2 Corinthians 6, verse 10.
Sorrowful,
Yet always rejoicing.
Sorrowful, yet always rejoicing. I think that's what this is teaching.
Here.
So if you can take away from this seminar,
From those verses and from Second Corinthians,
Six, ten, and from.
Weep with those who weep and rejoice with those who rejoice. those three texts, I think, describe the Christian life as,
Almost always simultaneously sorrowful and happy.
And,
What the bible teaches you
is that love won't ruin the wedding party.
With your sadness.
And love won't speak stupid, chipper words at the funeral.
Love knows when to release the joy.
And when to release the sorrow. they're both always there.
It creates a certain kind of worship.
It does.
You can tell a church
Where they get this that these thousand folks.
Are in pain,
Enjoy.
And worship leaders help us.
Walk in that.
We help them.
There's music that can do that.
there's some music i think that's just way too often the chipper end.
And some this just way too often the heavy end
And how to weave it all together
That's a gifted
Team of lead worshipers.
Or dads and moms in Ah, in a family helping kids grow up into this.
World.
One more phrase we need to deal with here in verse 6.
If necessary,,
What does that mean?
We rejoice.
And we'd grieve.
At the same time,
1 owing to hope, 1 owing to trials.
If necessary.,
So,
As these trials arrive in your life,
We...
Though for now.
Sorry though now for a little while
If necessary,
You are being grieved by various trials.
So,
Who?
Who's making this necessary?
What kind of necessity are we talking about here?
The devil is deciding,
Whether something is necessary or you're deciding if it's necessary, your neighbor is deciding that some trials, you need some trials right now, I'll
A bump into your car
This is God's necessity.
No.
If I just stay within first Peter to get my answer to whose necessity is it, who's making this necessary, who's deciding that this is necessary,
The immediate context
Says,
So this, so that here,
Is a design
Of these trials.
And the design is for the
Test the genuineness of your faith,
To be found, result in praise.
That's definitely not the design of the devil.
He does not want.
your
Tested faith to result in praise.
Your praise or God's praise?
Get to that in a minute.
Neither does your neighbor.
He's not aiming to help that that that's a purpose that only god can have so i'm inferring
That this is God's necessity.
Uh?
Siri is not available. sorry. I didn't mean to ask you, lady.
i i do talk to siri regularly so she didn't mean to offend you.
If necessary means, if God deems it necessary, and why would he deem it necessary for us to have these trials?
So that the tested genuineness of your faith,
would be found result praising glory and honor through revelation of Jesus Christ.
Now, to confirm whether I'm on the right track here, this is always a good thing to do. If you get an idea, you think that from the context you have decided something accurately and faithfully,
Check it out by moving out a little bit. So you go to chapter 3.
See if I wrote these down.
Yes, I did.
Here's here's 317.
It is better.
To suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, then for doing evil.
I think that's pretty plain.
If God wills for you to suffer for doing good,
Which means that the injustice coming upon you is God's design for you.
That's big, isn't it?
God
Wills that you suffer for doing good sometimes
So the necessity of suffering
He's God's.
First Peter, four, nineteen.
Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will.
And trust their souls to a faithful creator in doing good.
So God...
100%. Wills it. God wills it.
And then I went outside, 1 Peter.
To Philippians,
For it has been granted to you,
Graciously granted to you, I preached on this a couple of weeks ago in chapel, that.
Bethlyn College and Seminary,
And really underline this word right here
It has been granted to you for the sake of Christ that you should not only believe on him, but that you should suffer for his sake.
So it is a gift.
So three times
Two of them in 1 Peter.
One of them, in Paul, we are told that the sufferings that come into our lives are according to God's will. God is.
Sovereign,
So when I look at this word, if necessary here,
Then i see.
Okay. Okay.
He's my doctor. he's my therapist.
And he decides what's necessary.
you ever had a knee replacement or?
Had pneumonia.
Because and you got two broken ribs, and they say cough.
Care,
Oh, I see.
Hurt.
You got to cough.
Got pneumonia.
You have to cough.
That's what's going on here.
God says it's necessary.
For your faith.
Cough.
Genuine faith trust me
Your faith will be made stronger. You get
Over the pneumonia of unbelief and sin, if you cough,
Though it.
Hurts like crazy.
One last question, then we'll take a break.
Um.
These trials here
Come.
Evidently, by God's design and necessity,
And they have a
A grace
For every.
Day to meet them, don't they?
I saw this first years ago when I put together
Matthew six, thirty four,
And lamentations three twenty two.
This is what happens if you read the Bible.
Through enough times, you stumble on to things like this.
Matthew 6:34 says,
Um, don't be anxious about tomorrow.
For tomorrow will be anxious for itself,
Each day has
Enough trouble.
Trials of its own.
So God has judged that tomorrow will have its appropriate number of trials.
So don't bring them into today.
Wait.
There'll be enough for tomorrow. you got today's trials?
Tomorrow's trials don't let anxiety go here and bring them into here. But,
Why?
Because every day, now back, lamentations 3:22,
The mercies of God are new every morning, great is your faithfulness.
Well, if the mercies are new every morning, those mercies are designed for those troubles.
If you try to take those troubles that are designed for Sunday, tomorrow,
and bring them into Saturday to worry about them.
He said, I didn't design grace for that.
I designed Grace for tomorrow's troubles.
This is unbelievably encouraging that.
that the necessary trials that come into your life, God
I always will give you grace for them.
He will not let you be tested beyond what you are able, but with the test will provide a way of escape that you may be able to endure.
We're it.
That's part of what the shield of faith does. That's part of what being guarded through faith.
Means
Let me pray.
And
You aim to come back.
At ten thirty.
which will be a miracle, but
Let's pray, and maybe God will work that miracle.
Father in heaven,
Cause us to rejoice,
In the
Inheritance and the living hope that you've
Provided.
And grant that we would be established.
So that our?
Trials would not undo us.
But purify and strengthen our faith.
I ask this in Jesus' name.
Amen.